# How to add library in C++?

In every programming language there are some set of files, libarries, and packages that contains existing code for different functions that anyone can use without implementing them from scratch.

To know how to add a library first you have ti understand directive and preprocessor.

## Preprocessor

It is a program that will run before the execution of the program. If you want to use any function that is present in other library then it should be present before the execution of your code that has been take care by preprocessor.

## Directives

Directives are the order or instruction to the preprocessor which libraries need to be add in the code. To add any existing content of a file in C++ you use directive `#include`. In the sarting of the code you have to write this directive.

Syntax:

``` C++
#include<library_name>
```

example:

``` C++
#include<iostream>
```

After adding the libraries we need to mentiond the object to call the functions. (Object are the implementation of class you can read more in the OOPs module). To do this we have to write below line.

``` C++
using namespace std;
```

Or you can directly use the object name while calling the function without writing the above line but then you have to do everytime.

example:

``` C++
std::function_name
```

## mostly used libraries in C++

- iostream - iostream is a library that contains the functions for taking input and writing output in the code. It stands for Input/Output stream.

- STL libraries - The STL libraries are the most useful libraries in solving data strutures and algorithm problems.

- bits/stdc++.h - This library basically include all the libraries.
